---
layout: archive
title: "CV"
permalink: /cv/
author_profile: true
redirect_from:
  - /resume
---

{% include base_path %}
------------------------------------------------------------------------


# Academic Positions {#academic-positions .unnumbered}

::: list

**Pontifical Catholic University of Chile** - present

::: list


Assistant Professor\
Department of Mechanical and Metallurgical Engineering\
Institute for Biological and Medical Engineering
:::
:::

# Education {#education .unnumbered}

::: list

**Pontifical Catholic University of Chile**

::: list


Postdoctoral fellow at the Institute of Biological and Medical
Engineering.

Successfully funded by the School of Engineering internal fellowship and
FONDECYT Postdoctorado for 3 years.
:::

**Stanford University** - December 2018

::: list


Ph.D in Mechanical Engineering, Living Matter Laboratory.

Grade Point Average: 4.0

Teaching Assistant: "Non-linear Finite Elements", "Continuum Mechanics"
and "Neuromechanics".

Thesis name: "Multi-scale model of cardiac arrhythmias"
:::

**University of California, San Francisco** March - April 2011

::: list


Visiting Scholar: Research in finite element analysis of the vertebral
endplate.
:::

**Washington State University** January - February 2011

::: list


Visiting Scholar: Characterization of a dielectric micro droplet thermal
interface material.
:::

**Pontifical Catholic University of Chile**

Master of Engineering Science - 2011

::: list


Graduated summa cum laude. Ranked top 9%.

Thesis name: "Structural parameters determining the strength of the
porcine vertebral body affected by tumors".
:::

Mechanical Engineering - 2011

::: list


Graduated summa cum laude. Ranked top 8%.

Teaching assistant of the courses "Engineering Materials", "Mechanical
Behavior of Materials" and "Modern Methods of Manufacturing".
:::
:::

# Educational Experience {#educational-experience .unnumbered}

::: list

**Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile**, Mechanical Engineering. -
2014

::: list


Instructor: Teaching "Solid Mechanics" and "Product Design Workshop\".

Other tasks included: Assistance for grant applications, finite element
analysis consultancy and research in medical images segmentation.
:::

**Universidad de los Andes** March - July 2012

::: list


Instructor: teaching "Statics".
:::
:::

# Professional Experience {#professional-experience .unnumbered}

::: list

**Wenco S.A.** - 2014

::: list


R&D Engineer: Developing packaging plastic products for the Chilean
market.
:::
:::

# Publications {#sec:section_name .unnumbered}

::: etaremune

V. Tac, M.K. Rausch, **F. Sahli**, A.B. Tepole. Data-driven anisotropic
finite viscoelasticity using neural ordinary differential equations.
*Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics and Engineering 411 (2023):
116046.*

V. Tac, **F. Sahli**, A.B. Tepole. Data-driven tissue mechanics with
polyconvex neural ordinary differential equations. *Computer Methods in
Applied Mechanics and Engineering 398 (2022): 115248.*

C. Ruiz Herrera, T. Grandits, G. Plank, P. Perdikaris, **F. Sahli**, S.
Pezzuto. Physics-informed neural networks to learn cardiac fiber
orientation from multiple electroanatomical maps. *Engineering with
Computers (2022): 1-17.*

S. Pezzuto, P. Perdikaris, **F. Sahli**. Learning cardiac activation
maps from 12-lead ECG with multi-fidelity Bayesian optimization on
manifolds. *IFAC-PapersOnLine (2022), 55, 20, 175-180.*

O. Tikenoğulları, **F. Sahli**, J. Yao, A. Marsden, E. Kuhl. How viscous
is the beating heart? Insights from a computational study.
*Computational Mechanics (2022): 1-15.*

M. Peirlinck, J. Yao, **F. Sahli**, E. Kuhl. How drugs modulate the
performance of the human heart. *Computational Mechanics (2022):
doi:10.1007/s00466-022-02146-1*

L. Gander, S. Pezzuto, A. Gharaviri, R. Krause, P. Perdikaris, **F.
Sahli**. Fast characterization of inducible regions of atrial
fibrillation models with multi-fidelity Gaussian process
classification.*Frontiers in Physiology (2022):
doi:10.3389/fphys.2022.757159*

M. Peirlinck, **F. Sahli**, E. Kuhl. Sex differences in drug-induced
arrhythmogenesis. *Frontiers in Physiology (2021):
doi:10.3389/fphys.2021.708435*

M.A. Bhouri, **F. Sahli**, H. Wang, K. Linka, M. Peirlinck, E. Kuhl, P.
Perdikaris. COVID-19 dynamics across the US: A deep learning study of
human mobility and social behavior. *Computer Methods in Applied
Mechanics and Engineering, no. 382 (2021): 113891.*

M. Peirlinck, **F. Sahli**, J. Yao, J. M. Guccione, S. Tripathy, Y.
Wang, D. Ozturk, P. Segars, T.M. Morrison, S. Levine, E. Kuhl .
Precision medicine in human heart modeling. *Biomechanics and Modeling
in Mechanobiology (2021): 1-29.*

M. Peirlinck, K. Linka, **F. Sahli**, E. Bendavid, J. Bhattacharya, J.
Ioannidis, E. Kuhl. Visualizing the invisible: The effect of
asymptomatic transmission on the outbreak dynamics of COVID-19.
*Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics and Engineering*. 372 (2020):
113410.

K. Linka, M. Peirlinck, **F. Sahli**, E. Kuhl. Outbreak dynamics of
COVID-19 in Europe and the effect of travel restrictions. *Computer
Methods in Biomechanics and Biomedical Engineering. 2020 May 4:1-8.*

M. Peirlinck, K. Linka, **F. Sahli**, E. Kuhl. Outbreak dynamics of
COVID-19 in China and the United States. *Biomechanics and modeling in
mechanobiology (2020) Apr 27:1.*

**F. Sahli**, Y. Yang, P. Perdikaris, DE. Hurtado, E. Kuhl.
Physics-informed neural networks for cardiac activation mapping.
*Frontiers in Physics 8 (2020): 42.*

**F. Sahli**, K. Seo, E. Ashley, E. Kuhl. Classifying drugs by their
arrhythmogenic risk using machine learning. *Biophysical Journal
(2020).*

**F. Sahli**, P. Perdikaris, E. Kuhl, DE. Hurtado. Multi-fidelity
classification using Gaussian processes: accelerating the prediction of
large-scale computational models. *Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics
and Engineering, no. 357 (2019) 112602.*

M. Peirlinck, **F, Sahli**, KL. Sack, JS. Choy, GS. Kassab, JM.
Guccione, M. De Beule, P. Segers, E. Kuhl. Using machine learning to
characterize heart failure across the scales. *Biomechanics and Modeling
in Mechanobiology. 2019; doi:10.1007/s10237-019-01190-w.*

**F. Sahli**, JS. Choy, KL. Sack, JM. Guccione, G. Kassab, E. Kuhl.
Multiscale characterization of heart failure. *Acta Biomaterialia, no.
86 (2019): 66-76*

**F. Sahli**, K. Matsuno, J. Yao, P. Perdikaris, E. Kuhl. Machine
learning in drug development: Characterizing the effect of 30 drugs on
the QT interval using Gaussian process regression, sensitivity analysis,
and uncertainty quantification. *Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics
and Engineering, no. 348 (2019): 313-333*

**F. Sahli**, A. Sher, J. Yao, E. Kuhl. Predicting critical drug
concentrations and torsadogenic risk using a multiscale
exposure-response simulator. *Progress in Biophysics and Molecular
Biology (2019); doi:10.1016/j.pbiomolbio.2018.10.003*

**F. Sahli**, J. Yao, E. Kuhl. Predicting drug-induced arrhythmias by
multiscale modeling. *International journal for numerical methods in
biomedical engineering 34, no. 5 (2018): e2964.*

**F. Sahli**, J. Yao, E. Kuhl. Predicting the cardiac toxicity of drugs
using a novel multiscale exposure--response simulator. *Computer methods
in biomechanics and biomedical engineering 21, no. 3 (2018): 232-246.*

**F. Sahli**, JAB. Zaman, E. Kuhl, SM. Narayan. Interpreting activation
mapping of atrial fibrillation: A hybrid computational/physiological
study. *Annals of biomedical engineering 46, no. 2 (2018): 257-269.*

**F. Sahli**, FA. Concha, DE. Hurtado, E. Kuhl. The importance of
mechano-electrical feedback and inertia in cardiac electromechanics.
*Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics and Engineering, no. 320 (2017):
352-368.*

**F. Sahli**, DE. Hurtado, E. Kuhl. Generating Purkinje networks in the
human heart. *Journal of Biomechanics no. 49 (2016): 2455-2465.*

**F. Sahli**, J. Cuellar, A. Perez, AJ. Fields, M. Campos, J.
Ramos-Grez. Structural parameters determining the strength of the
porcine vertebral body affected by tumors. *Computer Methods in
Biomechanics and Biomedical Engineering 18, no 8 (2015): 890-899.*

AJ. Fields, **F. Sahli**, AG. Rodriguez, and JC. Lotz. Seeing double: a
comparison of microstructure, biomechanical function, and adjacent disc
health between double-and single-Layer vertebral endplates. *Spine 37,
no. 21 (2012): E1310-E1317.*

A. Hamdan, **F. Sahli**, R. Richards, and C. Richards. Characterization
of a dielectric microdroplet thermal interface material with dispersed
nanoparticles. *Journal of Nanoparticle Research 14, no. 9 (2012): 1-8.*
:::

# Pre-prints, Conference Proceedings & Others {#pre-prints-conference-proceedings-others .unnumbered}

::: list

S. Levine, T. Battisti, B. Butz, K. D'Souza, **F. Sahli**, M. Peirlinck.
\"Dassault Systèmes' Living Heart Project.\" In Modelling Congenital
Heart Disease, pp. 245-259. Springer, Cham, 2022.

**F. Sahli**, P. Arratia, H. Mella, S. Uribe, Daniel E. Hurtado.
Physics-informed neural networks for image registration: computing
cardiac strain. *Modeling Cardiac Function* (2022)

**F. Sahli**, P. Arratia, H. Mella, S. Uribe, Daniel E. Hurtado.
Physics-informed neural networks for image registration: computing
cardiac strain. *World Congress in Computational Mechanics* (2022)

**F. Sahli**, Y. Yang, P. Perdikaris, DE. Hurtado, E. Kuhl.
Physics-informed neural networks for cardiac activation mapping. *Pan
American Congress on Computational Mechanics* (2021)

**F. Sahli**, Y. Yang, P. Perdikaris, DE. Hurtado, E. Kuhl.
Physics-informed neural networks for cardiac activation mapping. *U.S.
National Congress in Computational Mechanics* (2021)

T. Grandits, S. Pezzuto, **F. Sahli**, P. Perdikaris, T. Pock, G. Plank,
and R. Krause. Learning atrial fiber orientations and conductivity
tensors from intracardiac maps using physics-informed neural networks.
*International Conference on Functional Imaging and Modeling of the
Heart, pp. 650-658. Springer, Cham, 2021.*

**F. Sahli**, P. Perdikaris, E. Kuhl, DE. Hurtado. Multi-fidelity
classification using Gaussian processes: accelerating the prediction of
large-scale computational models. *World Congress in Computational
Mechanics* (2020).

**F. Sahli**. Classifying drugs by their arrhythmogenic risk using
multiscale modeling and machine learning. *Workshop in Uncertainty
quantification for cardiac models, Isaac Newton Institute, University of
Cambridge, UK.*

**F. Sahli**, K. Matsuno, J. Yao, P. Perdikaris, E. Kuhl. Machine
learning in drug development: Characterizing the effect of 30 drugs on
the QT interval using Gaussian process regression, sensitivity analysis,
and uncertainty quantification. *U.S. National Congress in Computational
Mechanics*

**F. Sahli**, J. Yao, E. Kuhl. A high resolution multiscale model to
study drug-induced arrhythmias (2018). *World Congress on Computational
Mechanics*

**F. Sahli**, FA. Concha, DE. Hurtado, E. Kuhl. The importance of
mechano-electrical feedback and inertia in cardiac electromechanics
(2017). *U.S. National Congress of Computational Mechanics*

SM. Narayan, T. Baykaner, **F. Sahli**, E. Kuhl. Terminating atrial
fibrillation by cooling the heart. Editorial Commentary in *Heart
Rhythm. 2016;13:2259-2260*

**F. Sahli**, DE. Hurtado, E. Kuhl. Generating Purkinje networks in the
human heart (2016). *World Congress of Computational Mechanics.*

**F. Sahli**, J. Cuellar, A. Pérez, M. Campos, J. Ramos-Grez (2011).
Estudio mediante elementos finitos de vértebras porcinas afectadas por
tumores simulados. *X Jornadas de mecánica computacional.*

AJ. Fields, **F. Sahli**, AG. Rodriguez, J. Ramos-Grez, TM. Keaveny, JC.
Lotz (2011). Effects of endplate microstructure on biomechanical
integrity. *New Horizons in intervertebral disc research.*

AJ. Fields, **F. Sahli**, AG. Rodriguez, J. Ramos-Grez, TM. Keaveny, JC.
Lotz (2011). Comparison of biomechanical behavior, morphology, and disc
health between double-layer and single-layer endplates. *Orthopedic
Research Society 2012 Annual Meeting.*

AJ. Fields, **F. Sahli**, AG. Rodriguez, J. Ramos-Grez, TM. Keaveny, JC.
Lotz (2011). Influence of endplate morphology on biomechanical behavior
in double-layer endplates. *Orthopedic Research Society 2012 Annual
Meeting*.
:::

# Invited talks {#invited-talks .unnumbered}

::: list

Workshop on Scientific Machine Learning: Mathematics and Applications,
Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile (2022).

International center for Computational Mathematics in Medicine,
University of Pavia (2022): Kick-off meeting.

Closer Look journal club (2022).

Cardiac Physiome Meeting (2021).

Research Center on Mathematical Modelling - MODEMAT, Escuela Politécnica
Nacional del Ecuador (2021).

Penn Institute for Computational Science, University of Pennsynvania
(2019).
:::

# Funding {#sec:funding .unnumbered}

::: list

**Open seed fund** - School of Engineering, Pontificia Universidad
Católica de Chile (2022). Collaboration with Prof. Manuel Rausch from
University of Texas, Austin.

**Era PerMed - ANID:** (2022-2025). \"Digital Twins to Treat Atrial
Fibrillation\". In collaboration with research groups in France and
Austria.

**Millennium Institute for Intelligent Healthcare Engineering:** (2022 -
2032). Adjunct researcher.

**Millennium Nucleus for Applied Control and Inverse Problems:** (2021 -
2024). Adjunct researcher.

**Research Partnership Grant - Leading House for Latin American Region,
Switzerland:** (2022). Collaboration with Dr. Simone Pezzuto from
Universitá della Svizzera Italiana.

**FONDECYT - Iniciación:** (2022 - 2025). "Physics-informed neural
networks for cardiac strain estimation from cine MRI"

**Open seed fund** - School of Engineering, Pontificia Universidad
Católica de Chile (2020). Collaboration with Prof. Maria Holland from
University of Notre Dame.

**FONDECYT - Postdoctoral grant:** (2019 - 2022). "Understanding
drug-induced arrhythmias with multi-scale modeling and machine learning"

**Millennium Nucleus for Cardiovascular Magnetic Resonance:** (2019 -
2021). Young researcher.
:::

# Awards {#sec:awards .unnumbered}

::: list

**School of Engineering Postdoctoral Fellowship:** (Pontifical Catholic
University of Chile, 2019). Funds one year of postdoctoral projects.

**Travel award:** (Newton Institute). To attend workshop in uncertainty
quantification for cardiac models.

**CO-PI in XSEDE grant:** (2018). We were awarded 650,000 cpu-hours to
study drug-induced arrhythmias using high performance computing.

**Hyperion innovation excellence award:** (2017). For the development of
a computational model to predict drug-induced arrhythmias.

**Avonni - Industrial Category:** (National Innovation Award, Chile,
2015). At Wenco S.A., I developed a crate to export fruits that saves
millions of dollars in raw materials.

**Stanford School of Engineering Fellowship** (2014-2016)

**Fulbright-CONICYT Ph.D Fellowship** (2014-2018): Fund to complete
doctoral studies.

**Ismael Valdes Award:** (Chilean Institute of Engineers, 2013). Granted
to one engineer per school who demonstrates leadership skills, high
moral standards and technical preparation.

**Mario Hiriart Award:** (Pontifical Catholic University of Chile,
2012). Granted to one student of the School of Engineering who combines
academic excellence with humanitarian values.

**Best Thesis of the Department of Mechanical Engineering:** (School of
Engineering, Pontifical Catholic University of Chile, 2012).

**Honor Roll** (School of Engineering, Pontifical Catholic University of
Chile, 2005) Scholarship awarded during the first year for maximum score
in the mathematics university selection test.
:::

# Patents {#patents .unnumbered}

::: list

Light and integrated junction system of the walls of a collapsible
container.\
United States US20150284135A1, filed March 5, 2015. Inventors: Francisco
Sahli, Pedro Chinni.

Bottom of a container that optimizes the use of material.\
United States US20150283745A1, filed March 5, 2015. Inventors: Francisco
Sahli, Pedro Chinni.
:::

# Journal Reviewer {#journal-reviewer .unnumbered}

::: list

Computer Methods in Biomechanics and Biomedical Engineering (Reviewer
and Editorial Board).

Applied Mechanics Reviews.

Journal of the Mechanics and Physics of Solids.

Annals of Biomedical Engineering

Computers in Biology and Medicine

Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics and Engineering

Entropy.

Physical Review X

Engineering with Computers

Frontiers in Physiology

American Journal of Physiology - Heart and Circulatory Physiology

PLOS Computational Biology

Bioengineering

Computer Methods and Programs in Biomedicine

Journal of Biomechanical Engineering
:::

# Conference Committees {#conference-committees .unnumbered}

::: list

SIPAIM (2022), program committee.

IPMAS (2022), organizing committee.

International Conference on Functional Imaging and Modeling of the Heart
(2021, 2023), program committee.
:::
